Add your answer to problem 3 below.

1.	Trading Psychology: How to Handle FOMO (Dr. Steenbarger)

Sometimes a Fear Of Missing Out (FOMO) can have a toxic influence on your performance in coding.  Dr. Steenbarger proposes 
three evidence-based strategies for overcoming FOMO.  Your central nervous system has two systems, one designed to respond 
to a perceived threat and one designed to manage my life toward higher quality.  A key to overcoming fear is to take the 
threat out of a situation.  Another key is to tap into motivations that are stronger than the fear.  A desire to learn and 
grow, or a genuine love of the computer science trade, is a better, more sustainable motivation than a mere desire to earn 
a paycheck.  You’ll have more success if you aim for consistency than if you aim for profits.

Strategy 1 is Exposure Therapy.  Try to make the fear part of the brain, the motor areas, operate like the rational part of 
the brain, the frontal cortex, when you perceive a threat, in order to form a habit of remaining calm and thinking clearly 
whenever a threat presents itself.  Do this many times over a length of time and your brain gets used to doing it as a 
habit.  Strategy 2 is Changing Your Thinking.  Write four columns, in the form of an ABCD journal.  The “A” column is for 
the Activating Event, the “B” column is for your (negative) Beliefs about the event, the “C” column is for the Consequences 
of your negative thinking about the event, and the “D” column is for Disputing the negative thinking.  Writing this journal 
can help you monitor your thinking so you can change it.   Strategy 3 is to Broaden & Build.  Diversify the portfolio of 
your overall life, by not focusing all of your attention on your work, but also spending time nurturing your health, your 
sanity, your relationships with family and loved ones, your hobbies, and your spiritual well-being.  Maintain balance among 
these other areas so that if you suffer a setback or downfall in your programming work, it’ll have less negative affect on 
you because you’ll have other positives to fall back on.

Fear can sometimes be a manifestation of intuition, in a good way, so keep an eye out for that.  Personality can factor into 
your sense of fear, so it’s beneficial to learn about your personality.  The Five Factor Model is a good frame of reference 
for this.  If you’re high in trait Neuroticism, then you likely have a greater risk of your actions being guided by fear.  
If you’re high in trait Conscientiousness, you’ll likely have greater discipline to avoid FOMO.  Perfectionism is something 
you’re trying to avoid.  It’s better to emphasize being consistent more than being perfect.  A good way to resolve the 
problem that is so common among people, of failing to achieve goals, is to get very specific and detailed about plans and 
methods of implementation toward the goal.  

2.	TDD for those who don't need it

TDD stands for Test-Driven Development.  There’s some debate about the value of this in computer science and programming.  
Some developers feel like tests shouldn’t be necessary.  We should just write code that works, and if it doesn’t work, the 
compiler will let us know by giving us an error so we can make the proper adjustments.  An argument is made that sometimes 
it’s inevitable that life will distract us from our work, and an easy way to manage this is by letting the compiler send us 
a message about the problems in our code, so we can use that as a sort of bookmark.  It’s convenient to use errors as a 
mechanism for keeping track of progress in work, so that when you get distracted by life situations, you can easily remember 
where you left off.  It’s better to get things done than to worry about testing.  
